HISTORY
Even for the casual participant who plays a reasonably good game, the casino odds are less, making Blackjack one of the most attractive casino games for the player. While the popularity of Blackjack dates from World War I, its roots go back to the 1760s in France, where it is called Vingt-et-Un (French for 21). Today, Blackjack is the one card game that can be found in every American gambling casino. As a popular home game, it is played with slightly different rules. In the casino version, the house is the dealer (a "permanent bank"). In casino play, the dealer remains standing, and the players are seated. The dealer is in charge of running all aspects of the game, from shuffling and dealing the cards to handling all bets. In the home game, all of the players have the opportunity to be the dealer (a "changing bank").

THE PACK
The standard 52-card pack is used, but in most casinos several decks of cards are shuffled together. You will have the option of choosing how many decks (minimum is 1 deck and maximum is 8) you would like to play with.

OBJECT OF THE GAME
Each participant attempts to beat the dealer by getting a count as close to 21 as possible, without going over 21.

CARD VALUES/SCORING
It is up to each individual player if an ace is worth 1 or 11. Face cards are 10 and any other card is its pip value.

BETTING
Before the deal begins, you will decide on a number of chips you would like to bet.

THE DEAL
When you have placed your bet, the dealer gives you two face up cards, and deals itself two cards, one face up, and one face down. The face down card is revealed after the player's turn.

NATURALS or BLACKJACKS
If a player's first two cards are an ace and a "ten-card" (a picture card or 10), giving a count of 21 in two cards, this is a natural or "blackjack." If any player has a natural and the dealer does not, the dealer immediately pays that player one and a half times the amount of their bet. If the dealer has a natural, they immediately collect the bets of all players who do not have naturals, (but no additional amount). If the dealer and another player both have naturals, the bet of that player is a stand-off (a tie), and the player takes back his chips.

If the dealer's face-up card is a ten-card or an ace, they look at their face-down card to see if the two cards make a natural. If the face-up card is not a ten-card or an ace, they do not look at the face-down card until it is the dealer's turn to play.

THE PLAY
You must decide whether to "stand" or "stay" (not ask for another card) or "hit" (ask for another card in an attempt to get closer to a count of 21, or even hit 21 exactly). Thus, a player may stand on the two cards originally dealt to them, or they may ask the dealer for additional cards, one at a time, until deciding to stand on the total (if it is 21 or under), or goes "bust" (if it is over 21). In the latter case, the player loses and the dealer collects the bet wagered. The dealer then turns to the next player to their left and serves them in the same manner.

The combination of an ace with a card other than a ten-card is known as a "soft hand," because the player can count the ace as a 1 or 11, and either draw cards or not. For example with a "soft 17" (an ace and a 6), the total is 7 or 17. While a count of 17 is a good hand, the player may wish to draw for a higher total. If the draw creates a bust hand by counting the ace as an 11, the player simply counts the ace as a 1 and continues playing by standing or "hitting" (asking the dealer for additional cards, one at a time).

THE DEALER'S PLAY
When the dealer has served every player, the dealers face-down card is turned up. If the total is 17 or more, it must stand, unless it is a soft 17, in which case, the dealer must hit. If the total is 16 or under, they must take a card. The dealer must continue to take cards until the total is 17 or more, at which point the dealer must stand. If the dealer has an ace, and counting it as 11 would bring the total to 17 or more (but not over 21), the dealer must count the ace as 11 and stand. The dealer's decisions, then, are automatic on all plays, whereas the player always has the option of taking one or more cards.

SPLITTING PAIRS
If a player's first two cards are of the same denomination, such as two jacks or two sixes, they may choose to treat them as two separate hands when their turn comes around. The amount of the original bet then goes on one of the cards, and an equal amount must be placed as a bet on the other card. The two hands are treated separately, and the dealer settles with each on its own merits. If a natural is made after splitting pairs, the payoff is equal to the bet (not one and one-half to one, as with a blackjack at any other time).

DOUBLING DOWN
Another option open to the player is doubling their bet on their first turn. When the player's turn comes, they place a bet equal to the original bet, and the dealer gives the player just one card. The player is not allowed to hit again after doubling down and must conclude their turn. Note that the dealer does not have the option of splitting or doubling down.

INSURANCE
When the dealer's face-up card is an ace, any of the players may make a side bet of up to half the original bet that the dealer's face-down card is a ten-card, and thus a blackjack for the house. Once all such side bets are placed, the dealer looks at the hole card. If it is a ten-card, it is turned up, and those players who have made the insurance bet win and are paid double the amount of their half-bet - a 2 to 1 payoff. When a blackjack occurs for the dealer, of course, the hand is over, and the players' main bets are collected.

Source: https://bicyclecards.com/how-to-play/blackjack/